[Music]
you ever walk into a room just to forget
where you were going or what you were
looking for how about finding your car
keys in the fridge or the dog's food in
your cereal ball uh-oh
sounds like you could use a brain boost
here are some great ways you can train
the old thinker number one draw even if
the best you can make on paper is a
stick person and not a very good-looking
one at that stick to drawing whenever
you can this activity makes your right
brain hemisphere work like a hundred
horses triggering creativity and helping
you find unconventional solutions to
problems at hand to change up your
routine if you always get up in the
morning have your coffee take a shower
get dressed walk out and only then wake
up it's time for a change
automated actions stall your brain since
it's not taking an active part in what
you're doing
you might even forget important stuff
like whether you turned off the kitchen
stove or not to avoid this lack of
memory change up your routine every day
it could be something small like having
breakfast before you shower if you did
advice verse of the day before or taking
an unfamiliar route to school or work 3
get a degree yeah only two problems with
that having the time to attend classes
and the high cost but you can get a
degree that fits your schedule and avoid
student debt at university of the people
the first nonprofit u.s. accredited
online university where you can get it
to ition free bachelor's or master's
degree in the most in-demand fields like
Business Administration education health
and computer science the academic
leadership is from the best universities
around the world including Columbia UC
Berkeley NYU and more so no matter if
you're a single parent college dropout
or have no college campus near you you
can always study at University of the
People the fees are a fraction of the
average cost across the US and the
textbooks are free all you need to apply
is a high school diploma and
have internet access if that sounds like
something right up your alley then check
out the link down in the description for
use the opposite hand if you're a righty
take a spoon or your toothbrush into
your left hand and do the usual stuff
lefties you're now righties for the day
when you're doing things with your
dominant hand you can go about your day
on autopilot not paying particular
attention to what you're doing but as
soon as you start using your opposite
hand it gets much more intense it's
especially effective and funny when you
try to write like this
on that note number five right and I
mean right not type typing on a keyboard
or smartphone is okay too but actual
writing with a pen on paper woo
activates critical thinking and
increases your analytical skills it's
especially true if you write something
meaningful not just a bunch of gibberish
copied over and over again it can be a
diary or you might even uncover a
writer's talent hidden deep inside
yourself maybe your first bestseller is
just around the corner and you don't
even know it
six learn a new language studies have
shown that solving math problems doesn't
even rack your brain as much as learning
an unfamiliar tongue when you learn a
language you take on a whole new system
and your brain has no other choice but
to adapt to the circumstances be smart
about it though don't let the task
become a drag seven play chess chess is
one of the oldest strategic games in the
world and it stood the test of time
because it's awesome simple as that if
you play it regularly you'll learn to
concentrate and think bigger taking
actions that will affect your life a few
steps ahead you'll also get a deeper
understanding of others intentions after
all that's what chess is all about and
while we're on that topic eight play
video games well it's confirmed gamers
really do have big brains one 2015 study
found that action video games in
particular improve reaction time
servation skills and decision-making the
researchers say that other types of
games don't have this effect though so
go where the action is
9 do the chores preferably before you
play any games you got to earn the fun
time right sure well either way your
brain comes out on top
housework also contributes to your
brainpower it boils down to physical
activity which is great for the noggin
but more on that later it's also
effective at taking your mind off the
bigger problems 2:10 pick your nose or
pick that guy's nose just be careful
when you think hard about something and
find your finger inside your nostril
don't hurry to remove it okay maybe if
someone's watching otherwise remember
that massaging your mucous membrane
could be more useful than just digging
for gold it sends a signal to your brain
to wake up and do its job so you might
find a useful thought faster 11 wha
walking increases your blood flow which
means more blood and oxygen that
hitchhikes along with it reaches your
brain this boosts the thinking organs
activity making it more flexible when it
comes to important stuff ever caught
yourself getting up and walking around
the room when someone called you on the
phone
comment down below if you have I know I
have because it means your brain
automatically switches to active mode 12
eat chocolate well this is my favorite
if you have a sweet tooth this one's for
you chocolate contains an important
amino acid licen that helps your brain
process things faster and with more
efficiency it's only about dark
chocolate though because licen is found
in cocoa beans so the more cocoa there
is in your chocolate the better if you
prefer milk chocolate try to choose the
types that have at least 30% cocoa sugar
may give your brain a boost but it'll
only be temporary and after an hour or
so you'll just feel tired and groggy 13
breathe
here's a simple exercise that will fill
your brain with oxygen and let you feel
a rush of energy exhale all the air from
your lungs and hold your breath for as
long as you can don't wait until you're
black out though that's called hypoxia
and it's not cool when you can't hold it
any longer
breathe in powerfully and repeat the
influx of air into your lungs will send
oxygen to the tissues and your blood
will start pumping faster and that as
you remember enhances brain function do
this a couple of times every day and
you'll get a clearer head in no time 14
sleep whatever you do from this list
remember sleep can never be overrated if
you don't get enough shut-eye at night
then no boosting in the world will help
you think faster or bigger even coffee
has its limits because it basically uses
up your own inner energy by activating
it you don't necessarily need seven to
eight hours of sleep but you should
catch enough Z's to feel refreshed and
ready to tackle the day just don't
forget to check out the link to today's
video sponsor down in the description
box it'll take you to university of the
people where a great brain training
journey awaits hey if you learned
something new today
then give the video a like and share
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
yup remember stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]